# ment-ai README

Ment extension provide you an easy way to start using ChatGPT in your daily work, and for your different learning purposes.

> :warning: Since ChatGPT API isn't publicly available we will need you to connect to your OpenAI account. Note that your login credentials will never be shared and will only send to OpenAI login API, to allow you to access ChatGPT.
> As the owner of the account, you are responsible for the data you send to OpenAI and for how you use their services.

# Purpose

Ment extension has for mission to teach programming skills (any languages) in an efficient way, directly in the daily developer enviroment.

The system is based on ChatGPT, so you might encounter some strange behaviour, if you feel like the responses from the model aren't relevant anymore, start a new course (you can reuse the same prompt as before). The exercise might be a bit diffucult, **no worries that's on purpose**. We start with a difficult exercise, like that if you can't solve it, we can decrease the difficulty or teach you notions you aren't sure to master yet (that's normal while learning new concepts, don't be shy).

We recommend you to ask as much questions as you can, about terms or part of code you don't understand (see commands bellow to know the capabilities).
We opened the [Github discussions](https://github.com/ment-ai/ment-extension/discussions/1) panel on our repository to discuss content related subject and features ideas. Feel free to participate:

# Features

Use the Command palette (<kbd>⌘ Command</kbd> + <kbd>⇧ Shift</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd>) and use one of the following commands:

## Init profile

> Ment.ai: Setup OpenAI account

// TODO: talk about the 2 possibility.
// if the normal version email/password doesn't work allow to provide the acess token, we should deactivate if that's the case the other python token creation.

You will be prompt an input box where you need to specify your email, and password. We don't yet other login methods.

We use [PyChatGPT](https://github.com/rawandahmad698/PyChatGPT) to make the initialize the connection and generate the access token. We will automatically install it on your machine and running locally without proxy (see [src/openai.ts:15](src/openai.ts:15)).

## Start course

> Ment.ai: Set new goal

You will need to specify a goal you want to achieve, so ChatGPT can generate you the appropriated exercise. It might take ~5-10seconds.

You can start a new goal at any point, see in the `~/mentai/courses` folder the list of courses you did.

We added a list of interesting goal to start with: [GOALS_README.md](GOALS_README.md)

## Next exercise

> Ment.ai: Next exercise

When you feel like you explore everything on the exercise, you can try another one, by using this command. The subject will remain focus on your current goal. You can select one of the 3 type of difficulty for the next exercise:

1. harder
2. easier
3. the same

## Submit answer

Once you received your exercise, depending on the type, you will be able to submit an answer to progress and see what ChatGPT has to offer you next. 2 types of answers are possible Text & Code.

### Text

> Ment.ai: Answer/Submit exercise

It will prompt you an input box where you can write the sentence. _Note: you can use Markdown and LaTeX_

### Code

> Ment.ai: Answer/Submit with code

You will need to be in the file you want to submit. If you select a part of the code you can only submit that.

## Request solution

> Ment.ai: Show solution

## Others

- With a file open in the editor you can use the following command to get some help by ChatGPT.
  - **"Ment.ai: Ask ChatGPT"**
    > Request: 'Ask anything.'
  - **"Ment.ai: Why is my code broken?"**
    > Request: 'Why is this code broken?'
  - **"Ment.ai: Explain this code"**
    > Request: 'Can you explain what this code does?'
  - **"Ment.ai: Refactor this code"**
    > Request: 'Can you refactor this code and explain what's changed?'

If you select the a part of the code it will be append only that to the request otherwise it will send the all file.

- **"Ment.ai: Clear ChatGPT Logs"**
  - You can clear the logs:

---

# Informations

## Requirements

:warning: you must have `python=>3.9` installed on your local machine. If you don't you can use the following tutorial to do so.

> https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/python-tutorial

## Extension Settings

None

## Known Issues

- For the moment as describe in this issue, the connection will be only available for email/password login flow. Google and Microsoft signup flow isn't yet implemented.
  - https://github.com/rawandahmad698/PyChatGPT/issues/3
- You will probably encounter issue on the content generated by ChatGPT (e.g. inconsistency, functions hallucination, etc.). It's normal, nothing perfect, but we hope the tool will be useful in some place.
- If you leave a learning session, the next time you come at it, you might probably need to restart a new goal (you can use the same name, it will continue and append to the history in ~/mentai/courses folder).
- Latency, it might take long to get responses from ChatGPT.

## Release Notes

### 1.1.1

- Add show solution command for the exercise.
- Next exercise can pick the next difficulty.
- Improve documentation.
- Fix bugs about automatically submit input.
- Fix bugs of json file creation.
- Fix loader spinner.

### 1.0.0

- Ment.ai is now proposing you to generate an exercise based on a given objective.
  - Answering it.
  - Asking question about it.
  - Moving to a new exercise on the same subject.
- Start as many objectives as you want.

### 0.0.2

- Add basic command to get help on code related tasks with ChatGPT. Based on other awesome chat-gpt VScode extensions:
  - [chatgpt-vscode-plugin 1](https://github.com/barnesoir/chatgpt-vscode-plugin)
  - [chatgpt-helper 2](https://github.com/kiranvshah/chatgpt-helper)

### 0.0.1

- Facilitate the connection to the ChatGPT playground, through the user account.
  - using [pyChatGPT](https://github.com/rawandahmad698/PyChatGPT) project (unofficial).
